All applicants – please attacha personal statement that describes 
your academic interests and your purpose and objectives in 
undertaking graduate study. If you are applying for a master’s or 
diploma programme this is your opportunity to introduce yourself 
to the selectors. Please describe your academic background, 
strengths/interests, ambitions/research interests. Your statement 
should be typed, and should cover 2-3 sides of A4 paper. There is 
no fixed word limit. If your chosen programme has more than one 
stream (eg MSc Social Research Methods) you should indicate which 
stream you are interested in following. 
If either of your choices is an MSc (Research) please indicate 
here if you are applying for: 
the one year programme only 
a 1+3 research programme (see www.lse.ac.uk/ 
admissionsenquiries, keyword:oneplusthree) 
If you wish to be considered for a 1+3 or 2+2 programme (see 
www.esrc.ac.uk) you must include with your application an outline 
research proposal. This proposal should be a brief description of the 
research topic you are considering pursuing during your PhD and 
should explain why you are interested in this area of research. As your 
research interests will develop further over the year of your master’s 
training your proposal need only be indicative. 

Personal Statement:

	Mathematics is my passion. It has always happened that
	every time my career or academic path has strayed away from
	applied Mathematics, I end up changing my course to come back
	to it.
	
	I did my undergraduate studies in Bangalore, where after
	getting a top rank in the Engineering Entrance Exam I was able
	to take my pick of any college and any field in Bangalore,
	where admissions are extremely competetive.

	I chose Computer Science in BMS College of
	Engineering. Computer Science in bangalore was the field where
	I got introduced to areas of researchs in my studies BMS that are still
	one of my favorite fields, Such as neural networks, Advanced
	algorithms and graph theory. 

	(Para about internship in TI, and why I applied to UCSB.)

	In UCSB after taking a mathematically rigorous course in
	Pattern Recognition in my second quarter there, I realized
	that's what I wanted to do for my Master's thesis. I took
	every course in UCSB in the departments of Electrical
	Engineering and Computer Science that dealt with applied
	probability, Machine learning or statistics for the next one
	year.

	In my final year I started working with Professor Matthew Turk
	from the UCSB department of Computer Science. He is a very
	famous figure in the field of Computer Vision and Pattern
	Recognition. He agreed to be my advisor after I did a course
	in Applied Probability in Computer Science under him.

	One of the biggest lesson I learnt in the field of pattern
	recognition that I could never have only by taking courses was
	that pattern recognition was not just a set of algorithms and
	techniques , the greatest successes in the field happen by
	completely understanding the data, not by completely
	understanding the algorithms. You may have a complete
	understanding of sophisticated algorithms such as Support
	Vector Machine , ada-boost etc. But unless you completely
	understand the data and its patterns and characteristics its
	hard to find the right model for predictive success.

	I started to work on my thesis which was understanding
	biometric data on keyboard typing. Patterns in how people type
	was an unexplored area then, especially when people are not
	typing fixed text, but freely type anything they want to.
	
	This was a great opportunity to try my ideas on pattern
	recognition and computational learning on data that has not
	been previously explored too much.

	I was able to achieve great success in predicting outliers in
	keyboard biometrics. Within 60 keystrokes of an intruder
	typing on a computer system trained on its authorized user,
	the machine learning system was able to detect the intruder.

	My biggest regret has been that I never published my work in
	any conference, especially since this area suddenly became hot
	one year after I graduated. 

	For almost 3 years after I graduated I worked as a Research
	Engineer first in the area Automatic Speech Recognition at
	Ordinate LLC (Now a part of Pearson Education) where we were
	working on a ASR system that would grade speakers on their
	spoken language skills without using any human referees,
	purely using Speech recognition using Hidden Markov Models.
	Neural Networks and ideas from Testing theory. The system
	achieved more than 90% correlations with human
	testers. Working there one of my best projects was I used a
	decision tree algorithm that could classify if the speech
	recognition system did a bad job in recognizing a word. This
	algorithm did 40% better than internal confidence measure of
	the ASR system.

	At Wize.com a website that does recommendation for online
	shopping based crawled consumer reviews. I worked on
	algorithms that would compute the sentiment of the users on a
	particular product using ideas from computation natural
	language processing, I also built their search algorithm.

	Since my second year in UCSB where I was in close contact with
	Graduate students in Economics , I have always had an interest
	in economics and finance. In my spare time since I graduated I
	read various books on econometrics and options modelling. The
	mathematics of option pricing was very interesting and very
	challenging ,I would spend weekends trying to understand
	Stochastic Calculus. 

	For me pattern recognition is applied probability, I found
	the mathematics behind it more interesting always than the
	data. The one reason I did not pursue PhD in pattern
	recognition was that Engineering Research in UCSB focuses more
	on the data of the applied ideas of pattern recognition. I was
	not very interested in the field of bio-informatics,
	biometrics , image or speech data. For me I knew I enjoyed
	research in applied probablility but not the areas of
	engineering where it was applied to.

	My ventures into the area of economics gave me a clue that
	this is the place where I would be interested both in the
	theory and the application of the theory in the concrete real
	world.

	I finally took a plunge, in January 2009 when I took a part
	time course in a certificate course in the Statistics and
	Mathematics of Financial Engineering, at the UC Berkeley Haas
	School of business. It was awesome, and opened my eyes to
	something I always suspected I knew, This was where I wanted
	to be. Applied Mathematics, Probability and Computational
	Theory in the social sciences i.e Finance
	and Economics. 

	I want to apply to the LSE MSc in Applicable Mathematics
	because it is where my journey of self discovery exactly
	fits. Applied Mathematics with the rigour of mathematics and
	firm foundation and learning of its theory with a chance to
	apply it in Economics and Finance.

	

	 



	 
	 

	

	
	

	
	
	
